The rapid growth of the Internet of Things (IoT) have incorporated significant amount of technological advancements. However, it has also increased the vulnerabilities of the interconnected devices to different cyber threats. This paper provides the evolving landscape of cyber-attacks that mainly targets the IoT devices by highlighting the critical risks towards data security, privacy, and net-work integrity. This research considers a qualitative method research approach there is a consideration of qualitative literature review through the well-established researches. The study also explored the existing vulnerabilities followed by security measures along with attack vectors within the IoT systems. The literature review revealed that there is a lack of robust security infrastructure within the IoT devices. This further make them primary targets for the cyber-attacks like the Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) along with the malware infiltration. The study also discuss regarding the recent hacking incidents that includes the SolarWinds and Colonial Pipeline attacks and the quantum computing attacks that highlights the urgent requirement for an effective security protocols. There are important mitigation strategies like the Transport Layer Security (TLS) for the encrypted communication, secure boot processes, along with the lightweight cryptography. These are identified as the essential tools to im-prove the security of IoT ecosystems. The findings also highlights the significance of adoption of the comprehensive cybersecurity measures to protect data integrity and it assure the pliability of interconnected net-works against the emerging threats. In addition to that there are inclusion of customized security solution. This paper have a significant contribution to consider the domain of IoT security and provide important in-sights regarding the potential solutions to secure the rapidly expanding IoT environment.